>> Learner 1: I've often used the pattern
of steps, like the step pattern,
to do something similar where I have
step one, step two, step three.
And I would say the solution
that we ended up
using was not nearly
as elegant to do those
step by step processes,
but it made use of,
I think material has like
a stepper function, right.
And so trying to incorporate some of that,
I feel like this would
have been a better approach
versus what we ended up doing.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah,
so that's actually a,
that's a really good thing to call out.
So I'm actually going to make a mini,
mini demo or just like some demo code.
Wait, we already have something here.
But actually this is still a good point.
So let's say that we have
something that's multi step.
In fact, let's add another view here.
So let's just do function confirm view.
And so this is something where basically
you can confirm your selection or
something like that.
In fact, we could just unclick
dispatch select flights and
we have to add that real quick.
Let's do that over here.
So type select flight and
then flight ID string and
then we're just going to
add that to the states too.
So we have our flow states.
So we have our selected flight stringer
null and then we could also go
to the confirmed states with the selected
flight definitely selected thanks to that.
So a lot of times, and
I'm not going to fully code this out,
but we might do something where,
like you said,
we might have steps where it's,
let's say const steps equals.
We might first have search and
then loading.
If you want to put that in steps
sometimes like actually it
doesn't really make sense to do that,
but it does go to show you why,
you know, there's limitations
to this approach anyway.
And then results and then confirm.
So what's cool about this is it represents
a very simple flow where it's like,
okay, the steps are clear,
we have step one, step two and step three.
In fact,
I'm gonna bring this out here to show you.
And so we would have something like.
Thanks cursor.
We would have something like the current
step is whatever the current step ID is.
Again, we could use what we've learned and
say step index set step index equals
useState0 grab that from react and
then we could derive
the current step from that.
So const currenStep = steps index.
The problem with this though is you
basically only have one possible thing you
could do, which is go to the next one.
So we could say function next step and
Then we set the step
index to the index +1.
You do have to check like am I going to go
beyond that array or something like that.
And if you do want to get fancy,
you have previous step two where you could
set the step index to the previous one.
So there's a couple of
issues with this approach.
First of all it's very linear.
It assumes that you're going 1, 2, 3 or
if you want to do a doubly linked
list you would go 3, 2, 1.
So you could sort of go backwards.
But there might be some steps where for
example incomplete you
might not want to go back.
So now you have to add special logic
where it's like if step index is not
equal to three in this case, then
return because you don't really want to
go back from complete but then that's
disconnected from the actual logic.
So what I like to do instead is make
this just a little bit more explicit.
And this comes from my experience
working with state machines and
multi step forms where steps can
branch out, steps can loop back,
etc., and
that is to make a directed graph.
So instead of this steps we could
have a step graph by the way,
no libraries needed here.
You could do this just
with normal JavaScript.
And so we could say,
in fact we could keep it super simple.
We could say that we have search and then
on next we go loading same thing here,
result next confirm confirm next
complete and then complete.
We don't have anything from there but
on the loading we could go to search or
we could go from results
to see this is another instance
of let's say we have this.
We wouldn't want to go back
to the loading screen.
So from here we would
go back to search and
then we could go back to results
from the confirm screen.
So now we have this
graph representation and
then our logic actually in my
opinion becomes a lot simpler.
So next step we have,
instead of this current step
we would have a const
current step set current step
equals useState search and
then the next step is going to
be whatever the current step
is next if it exists and
if it doesn't exist,
just stay with the current step.
So typescript's yelling at me,
it's totally fine, this is still correct.
And then the previous step we would just
go based on what the previous one is.
So just to illustrate that this graph
isn't exactly, you know, it's not linear.
Even something as simple as this,
I'm going to take this and
ask make a state diagram of this.
It's probably Going to use Mermaid.
But that's cool.
We could visualize Mermaid.
It's thinking for a bit or
it just does it via.
Wow,
>> Learners: [LAUGH] This is cool.
>> Learner 2: Excellent.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah, okay, so
you can see it's not entirely linear or
pretty, but mostly not linear.
So we have this happy path flow here.
We also see that we could
go back from the results.
I'm assuming that it's meant to go back
here to search and same thing with confirm
which it's supposed to go back here to
the results might be a formatting thing.
Let's ask it to do it as Mermaid and maybe
we'll have a better visualization of it.
So what we're going to receive
is probably something better.
So let's copy this and
go to see Mermaid.live.
Paste it in here.
Okay, this is better.
So we have search loading.
We could go back from here.
Results.
Once we receive the results back, this is
one instance where we're not going back
to loading,
we're actually going back to search.
And then we have this back and
forth loop here.
You could go next to confirm and
back to results or
you could go to complete
where there is no back.
So this goes to show you that even
simple flows are not always linear.
An array of steps, I've done that
before too, plenty of times.
But it just doesn't scale once things
get a little bit more complicated.
>> Learner 1: Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, because we ran into situations
too where some steps were optional.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah, optional steps.
That's a big one.
>> Learner 1: Yes.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah.
>> Learner 1: And so then trying to
create something that would essentially
from a basic like quick glance looks
linear is just totally broken.
Once you attempt to put too many,
what would you say conditionals in it.
Because we did exactly the.
If you're on step three and
you're clicking to the next one and
then all of a sudden you need to exit out.
We've had to do conditionals
within the stepping.
So I appreciate that you took the time
to at least show how you can graph it
versus having just a standard array
of keeping all your steps together.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah, absolutely.
And if you want to see a visual,
not a visual like this, but
like a way of how code
transforms from that step based
approach to more of
a grasp based approach.
I kid you not, but go to.
This is newly released.
Go to Jules.Google.
And it's sort of my fault that
they did this because I made this.
Think about it on Twitter.
But they basically have this.
Don't know if you could see it that well.
It says change user onboarding to
use a state machine for steps.
So it started with that
array based step thing.
And so it's refactoring it to use
that basic state machine set up that,
that I showed you.
And so you see we have the previous
logic where next step is based
on the index in the array and
it's showing that a potentially
better way to do that,
that scales once you have more complex
flows is to instead do it just
by doing an object lookup.
So you could see how it changes it here.
And in my opinion the logic becomes
a lot simpler once you do it that way.
That was a little bit painful and
it was only two or three steps.
So you could just imagine how like
with bigger applications it definitely
gets messier when you have bigger
flows and more complex flows.
And that's exactly what we have when we
go to the, when we go to the libraries.
So libraries exercise.
So let me just pull this up.
Library,
>> Learner 1: One last comment on-
>> David Khourshid: Yeah, absolutely.
>> Learner 1: The page before we move on.
Also too, I noticed that we're
still utilizing the on submit
within the booking form and
we could swap out to using the action.
>> David Khourshid: Exactly, yeah.
>> Learner 1: So that we could even
reduce the code down substantially more.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah, to be honest,
that exercise encompasses a lot of things.
I think there's even something there where
you can use derived state instead of,
you know,
the use effect that's going on there.
But yeah, there's a lot of things in that
where I'm glad that you're recognizing
the pattern so that you could see,
hey, I could refactor this,
I could simplify this or potentially
prevent bugs in this part of the code.